{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Avenir-Book;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c79525;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21140\viewh14580\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 JAVA - CHEAT SHEET\
\
\

\b\fs34 ----- Arrays ------
\b0\fs26 \
When you want to group data the most basic solution is to use an Array. \
Limitations of using an Array: \
- They are statically sized. \
- Requires explicit position management. Higher-level stuff like sorting requires much more from the programer.\
- Little more than a bunch of values\
\ul Collections provide more powerful options!\ulnone \
\
examples:\
int[] myIntArray = new int[3];\
int[] myIntArray = \{1,2,3\};\
int[] myIntArray = new int[]\{1,2,3\};\
\
String[] myStringArray = new String[3];\
String[] myStringArray = \{"a","b","c"\};\
String[] myStringArray = new String[]\{"a","b","c"\};\
\
---------------------------------------------/Arrays -------------------------------------------------\
\

\b\fs34 ----- Collections Framework------\

\b0\fs26 https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/collections/index.html
\b \

\b0 Each collection type has its own features. The collection interface however provides common methods and is implemented by most collection types. The collection inteface extends the iterable interface.\

\b \
Common Collection Interfaces\

\b0 The different interfaces defines the particular behavior that distinguishe the collections from each other
\b \

\b0 Interface Collection<E> -- Superinterface Iterable<E> -- Basic collection operations
\b \

\b0 Interface List<E> -- Superinterfaces Collection<E>, Iterable<E> -- Collection that maintains a particular order
\b \

\b0 Interface Queue<E> -- Superinterfaces Collection<E>, Iterable<E> -- Collection with the concept of order and specific "head" elemenst\
Interface Set<E> -- Superinterfaces Collection<E>, Iterable<E> -- Collection that contains no duplicate values\
Interface SortedSet<E> -- Superinterfaces Collection<E>, Iterable<E>, Set<E> -- A set whose members are sorted\
\

\b Common Collection Classes\

\b0 Every collection class implements one or more collection interface\
Class ArrayList<E>\
- Implements Iterable<E>, \ul Collection<E>\ulnone , \ul List<E>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable, and RandomAccess\
- A List backed by a resizable array. \
- Efficient random access but inefficient random inserts*\
Class LinkedList<E> -- Implements Iterable<E>, \ul Collection<E>\ulnone , \ul List<E>\ulnone , \ul Deque<E>\ulnone , \ul Queue<E>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable\
- A list and Queue backed by a double-linked list\
- Efficient random insert but inefficient random access* \
Class HashSet<E> -- Implements Iterable<E>, \ul Collection<E>\ulnone , \ul Set<E>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable\
- A Set implemented as a hash table\
- Makes no guarantees as to the iteration order of the set\
- Efficient general purpose usage at any size\
Class TreeSet<E> -- Implements Iterable<E>, \ul Collection<E>\ulnone , \ul NavigableSet<E>\ulnone , \ul Set<E>\ulnone , \ul SortedSet<E>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable \
- A SortedSet implemented as a balanced binary tree\
- Members accessible in order but less efficient to modify and search than a HashSet\
\
\
* random access = getting, e.g., the 30st, 150th or 200th element\
* random insert = inserting an element between, e.g., the 200th and 201st element\

\b \
Sorted Collections\

\b0 Some types rely on sorting. There are two ways to specify sort behaviour\
Comparable interface: Implemented by the type to be sorted. Note that the implementation of sort should be consistent with equals\
Comparator interface: Implemented by the type that perform sort. Specifies sort behavior for another type. The comparator is passed to the sorted collection when it is created. 
\b \
\
Common Collection Methods\

\b0 size, clear, isEmpty, add, addAll
\b \

\b0 contains, containsAll, remove, removeAll, retainAll //Be aware on how the objects equal methods are implemented when using these methods\
\

\b Java 8 Collection Methods\

\b0 forEach and removeIf with lambda expression. Se example below in the lambda section. I don't understand if forEach and removeIf was introduced in Java 8 or no.
\b \
\
Collection and Arrays\

\b0 The collection interface can return an array: \
- toArray() - returns an array of the type Object\
- toArray(T[] array) - returns an array of the type T\
Array content can be retrived as a collection:\
- asList()\
\

\b -- Map --\

\b0 Map is part of the collection framework but doesn't implement the collection interface\
Maps keys to values. \
A map cannot contain duplicate keys; each key can map to at most one value.\
Values can be duplicated and null
\b \
\
Interfaces and classes\

\b0 Interface Map<K,V> \
- Basic map operations\
Interface SortedMap<K,V> -- Superinterface \ul Map<K,V>\ulnone  \
- Map whose keys are sorted\
Class HashMap<K,V> -- Implements \ul Map<K,V>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable \
- Efficient general purpose Map implementation\
- Makes no guarantees as to the iteration order of the map, neither will it remain constant over time.\
Class TreeMap<K,V> -- Implements \ul Map<K,V>\ulnone , \ul NavigableMap<K,V>\ulnone , \ul SortedMap<K,V>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable\
- SortedMap implemented as a self-balancing tree. Supports Comparable and Comparator sorting. \
Class HashTable<K,V> -- Implements \ul Map<K,V>\ulnone , Serializable, Cloneable \
- Hashtable is synchronized. If a thread-safe implementation is not needed, it is recommended to use HashMap in place of Hashtable. \
- If a thread-safe highly-concurrent implementation is desired, then it is recommended to use ConcurrentHashMap in place of Hashtable.\
\

\b Common Map Methods\

\b0 put - Add key and value\
putIfAbsent - Add key and value if key not contained or value null\
get - Return value for key, if key not found return null\
getOrDefault - Return value for key, if key not found return the provided default value\
values - Return a Collection of the contained values\
keySet - Return a Set of the contained keys\
forEach - Perform action for each entry\
replaceAll - Perform action for each entry replacing the each Key's value with the action's result\
\
--/Map--\

\b \

\b0 ---------------------------------------------/Collections Framework -------------------------------------------------
\b \
\

\fs34 ----- Lambda Expressions -----
\fs26 \

\b0 - Introduced in Java 8\
- Simplifies passing code as arguments\
\

\b An example
\b0  of a lambda expression with a collection and forEach:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 //This code will iterate throw the list and for each object in the list it will execute the code after the arrow (->)\
list.forEach(o -> System.out.println(o.getLabel()))\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 list.removeIf(m -> m.getValue().equals("abc"));\
\

\f0\b An example
\b0  of a 
\b bi-consumer
\b0  lambda expression
\f1 \
map.forEach( (k,v) -> System.out.println(k + " | " + v);\
\

\f0\b An example
\b0  of a 
\b bi-function
\b0  lambda expression. \

\f1 //Accept two parameters but also returns back a value. The value returned will be the new value in the map.
\f0 \

\f1 map.replaceAll( (k,v) -> v.toUpperCase());\

\f0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ---------------------------------/Lambda Expressions-------------------------------------------------------------\

\b  \
Array
\b0 \
Most basic solution is to use an Array. \
Limitations of using an Array: \
- They are statically sized. \
- Requires explicit position management. Higher-level stuff like sorting requires much more from the programer.\
- Little more than a bunch of values\
\

\b Mutable vs immutable
\b0 \
An immutable object cannot be changed once it is created, e.g., a String. \
A mutable object can be changed after it has been created, e.g., an ArrayList\

\b \
Access Levels\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1700\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1320\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Modifier\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Class\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Package\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Subclass\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 World\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1700\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1320\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 public\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1700\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1320\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 protected\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1700\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1320\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 no modifier\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1700\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1320\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 private\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 N\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Java 7 vs 8 vs 9\

\b0 7\
8 - Lambda expressions, default methods in interfaces\
9\
\

\b\fs34 --- JavaEE - What is part of EE and not SE ---\

\b0\fs26 \
## JMS - Java Message Service\
It is a messaging standard that allows application components based on the Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) to create, send, receive, and read messages.  It allows the communication between different components of a distributed application to be loosely coupled, reliable, and asynchronous.\
\
To use JMS, one must have a JMS provider that can manage the sessions, queues and topics. Examples of JMS providers: Apache ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, JBoss HornetQ\
\
## EJB - Enterprise JavaBean\
\
## Servlets\
\
## JSP\

\fs28 --- /JavaEE - What is part of EE and not SE ---
\b\fs34 \

\b0\fs26 \
\

\b TODO
\b0 \
When was anonymous functions introduced in Java?\
What is functional programming?\
How does closures work?\
\
\
}